---
title: Unsent Letter
date: 2024-09-08
category: notes
layout: post
---

Well, Hi.

This time you won't be my guest. I've indulged you in the past in my world of syntax, and this time it's just for me. You always said you are a good writer, but I have never received anything you wrote besides your text, and honestly after chatting with ChatGPT about my emotions extensively, I think GPT is more understanding than you are.

This is a letter that I am writing so that I can feel less painful. I want to send you this when we meet up again, to reconnect or to depart. I think you should know how I felt after we broke up, and I think this is the only way I can lay down my thoughts. I don't want to repeat the same things again, and I'm sure you don't either, so I guess whatever happens, at least we are on the same page. It's not meant to take you back, or push you away. I have enough self-respect not to think that way. 

I am not particularly angry, honestly. Part of me is very frustrated at the situation, because I need love, accompany, affection, and well, you guessed it, attention. I am having none of that right now, and so it feels like a void. My emotions are very volatile. It started with some hope, river of sadness, frustration, confusion, and now it's a very strong desire to feel better. I've booked my trip to DC--interesting how even at the moment I knew exactly that's what I need. 

I talked to my therapist today, and she said that's not a good start of the semester. I've written so much about the hurt you caused me, and these hurt and confusion still feel very real. That hurt did not go away, and I still have so many questions to ask. It took me a while to find those words. In a lot of ways I want to sympathize with you. I saw part of your message with your friend Nolan, and you genuinely sound like you need help. You need help, but why do you screw it up even more for yourself? You said you need to make a decision, but since when is having the relaitonship or not a one-sided decision? I feel left out, abandoned, betrayed. I feel frustrated, because there's nothing I can do other than "be a good girl" and give you space.

I offered you space. I offered you space when you were having mental break downs. I offered to offer you space when I feel that we have been spending way too much time together during the winter break. I offered to offer you space end of spring semester, when you not only wanted to end things, but your life. I offered you space to be broken, to cry, to be angry, to be sad, to visit memories, to feel safe. I offered to offer you space when we got too close and it feels like things are getting out of control. I offered to offer you space, even hours before you threw me out of the house, I said "do you need me to leave", to which you answered "it's ok, you are not white." I can still offer you space, as much as you want, as long as you need, till I leave. Whatever decision you make, I will deliver this letter to you, because I know you won't give me any room to express myself. You are too impatient to. 

I don't want to call you an asshole, because that doesn't encapsulate what I'm experiencing at all, the massive feeling of loss, confusion, and grief. I know you want me to treat it more like a break not a break up, but by that do you mean I should keep my hopes up until you ruin it yourself "after making a decision". If you are so keen on "making a decision", why not making real decisions that will actually help you? Why not talk to Elaine, as she's right there? Why not tell her what really is going on, tell her what's on your mind, what you need help with? Why not finish your work? Is breaking up easier than finishing up school work, like seriously? Why not figure out your insurance situation, because you need ERP, the sooner the better. Why not start you program application? It looks like you are waiting for the right time again. Oh, and you had the guts to say you will only apply once if they don't accept you will just find another path. Both of us know all of the other paths are much longer and way more confusing. Why don't you look for jobs in LA or NYC? You blamed me without blaming me that I'm still uncertain about the future, but if anything at least I'm doing something about it. 

Yeah, I get it. A lot is going on, OCD is getting worse, social anxiety and everything doesn't help. How does breaking up fit into the picture? Elaine didn't get it, and honestly me neither. Sure, I can give you all the space you need. Guess what, there have been times when I felt like running away, when I felt like I am hurt too much, when I didn't feel safe, emotionally. There are times when you made me feel like I'm worse than your mom, that I'm someone you are disgusted by, that I was the perpetrator. I never fully allowed myself to take those on you. I never did. Most of my insecurities are rational, because I know as a fact that when things get tough, you will leave me in the first instance. I knew I was the easiest thing to give up, and it has been proven so many times. Don't pretend it's not the case. It is an easy decision, or I guess, easier decision, than all of the others, that can be summarized as: facing your problems, your emotions, and be brave enough to receive support and address them directly. You'd rather live in your brain than bring yourself up, then you said I'm the reason you can't get up. 

Your problems, physically or emotionally, are not on me, and I don't know why I'm the one left feeling this way. I'm left feeling overwhelmed by sea of emotions. I'm left waiting for your message, crafting the interactions delicately, and express all my hurt with a fucking chatbot. It sounds very pathetic, and it probably is. At least though, I recoganize one thing--I face my problems directly. You can avoid me, but you can't avoid realities. Now you have avoided me, and honestly I am curious how the realities are treating you. 

You never really give me credit on the support I provide you. I pointed you to directions that I personally believe will do nothing but postive changes in your life--the film program, therapy, grants for research. I pretty much said everything Sergio said about that project, as in you need to finish up. I even said the other half as in you need to find grants. I listened and gave you advice only when I thought you need them. When I tried to explain my heitmatlos, the feeling that there's no place in this world that I will feel settled, that I can call home, what did you say? You said just apply for grad school. I'd like to think you were trying to help and completely missed my point. If I said that about your childhood trauma, "just make film", what will you feel? Yes you have heard me ranting about the Keio program, and I appreciate you listening. If you were really frustrated and bored by it, do you have to wait until you get to the point that you said "every time that's the only thing we talk about"? Is that real support? Did I ever say "oh you have a 4.0 GPA you will be fine" about your future? 

Oh sure I'm not into film. Does that make me support you any less? You felt doubted, but I was not even doubting you. That was the insecurity you had, and I didn't give you that. If you are not doing enough for yourself, then none of the outcomes are on me. Remember, you didn't finish up two months before we met, and that has nothing to do with me right? You could say, "I could have finished..."

We know the truth. The truth is you didn't make an effort to finish. You didn't apply for graduation, which you should do in January btw if you want to get out of here, and you didn't fulfill your requirements at all. These things don't make you inferior in anyway, I hope you don't think that. These are realities you need to tackle, and as much as I could support you, you only wanted to put them aside, until they became a much bigger problem. None of this is new. 

Maybe I should just give you more space, but darling you asked for a break up, it's not just space. Do you really think I will just brush over and say no if you said you need space? The truth is you are not willing to spend any tiny bit of energy on me, your ex-girlfriend, because as much as you would like to think you love her, you are more than ready to give her up. She has acted nothing but attached, supportive, and thus despensible. She's the first one eliminated from the equation of your "picking yourself up" parade. Please don't tell me you are using the break up to break yourself, so that you can work on yourself. Can you have some basic respect for the relationship, and actually take responsibility for your own well-being? 

Sad, yes, but what is that sadness for? You didn't have to get yourself into this situation, and I have offered so many chances. I have swallowed my pride so many times. I have been hurt so many times. I have told myself, "he's just figuring out. I don't want to break up with him. I love him, and he will figure it out" so many so many times. And I'm still offering you more chances, because I know you are just being avoidant, because I still care about you. You said you care about me, then what exactly do you care about? I feel numb when I'm hurt now. You said the same thing about my insensitive comments, but what you have done is beyond insensitive. You know what you were doing, and honestly it's manipulative. Sure, feeling you are torn apart. By who? That, my friend, is something left unanswered for your own grace. 

Or maybe, I should give you the benefit of the doubt. You know not the first thing about me in terms of what hurts me the most. Rejection. 

Well, what a surprise. 

I see how my friends care about me more than you do now. They accept me as who I really am, happy or not, achieving, or not. I would like to believe the love was real. That you really cared about me. That it was just too much. Am I too much? 

Even after you hypothetically addressed all of that "too-muchness" of life, I have one question here: let's say life throws things at you again, when you become very overwhelmed, again. Will you do all of this again? Will you let me in? Will you let me support you? Will you put down your pride, and actually express an ounce of love for me? I don't know, you tell me. 

You have acted like oh it's so hard to break up with her, because she always cried whenever I bring it up. I am the problem at hand huh? Well, I feel pathetic for myself when I cry. Trust me, I am not proud of those moments. I feel pathetic when I begged you to stay, not when you break up with me btw, when you threatened to kill yourself. 

Maybe that gave you some false ideas about who I am. I don't beg people at all. I begged you, because I didn't know how to handle it better. Of course I want you to be ok, but you could not be convinced. I said, we can work on it together. You don't have to deal with it alone. We can build a future together. 

You didn't want to believe it. And so I guilt trapped you and threw my self-esteem or any form of pride right away and said, please don't leave me. I felt infantalized even at the moment. What I really meant was, if you can't think of any reaasons to stay, maybe you will stay for me. I was not even sure if that would actually work, because honestly the way you went about it didn't feel like I was worth it. I'm glad you stayed, don't get me wrong. I'm glad you have taken steps to heal. I'm proud of the change you have had in the past year. More needs to happen though. 

You still don't believe me that we can build something together. More like, you don't think I'm precious enough to consider. Your future is about making movies and succeed, and I don't have any share of positions in your glorious ambition for life. I'm not the person, because I won't be able to help you. I will be a burden. Is that true? Or maybe it's not as harsh as that--I'm not compatible. Maybe there's someone you want more out there. Maybe there's someone more interesting. Maybe, just maybe, there's someone who doesn't require as much attention and commitment. I'm sure there will be. I congratulate you that you will find the one this way for sure, because it's honestly not a very high standard. They just need to like movies and treat you like shit. Please don't think I'm being resentful here. You know it is true--you'd rather be in an uncommitted and toxic casual relationship than a committed and real one. At least, that's what I heard when you describe what you have always hoped that you have.

You still leave me anyway. I knew you will, and you did. You wanted me to leave you. You did everything you could. Your treated me as some sort of sex toy who can cook and cuddle with. When I demand more than that, I'm "too much". You feel bad of treating me as such, of course, but you refuse to change.

I can't talk to you. You always have reasons for your actions. You are very good at debating. You rationalize every reason you should avoid, keep avoiding, avoid me, the problems, the world, your future. Guess what, it's not a debate now. It's just me, trying to make sense of what happened. I'd like to think, a lot of the times, that you are better than who you actually are. I'd like to think, in the past, that you will never want to hurt me. I'd like to think like that, because I'd like to think I didn't do everything for nothing. I've lost the sense of reality now. You've ruined a lot of things for me. You have really hurt me. It's not breaking up. It's the way you go about doing it. You apologized, but I can't say I can forgive, especially because I know, whatever you have worked on, you are still avoiding. You said, and I quote, "I was kind of hypocritical; I should have really reflected on things and presented them to you in a calm and thoughtful manner. I’m sorry that it hurt you, it was my fault." Honey, you insulted me multiple times. It wasn't just not calm or thoughtful. It was personal attack after personal attack. It was insults after insults. How many times did I said I'm sorry, when I was being verbally bullied? How many times did I have to say I'm sorry when I was triggered, experienced trauma response, and then reduced to "I can't break up with you because how you behaved." You would rather avoid me than treat me with any empathy. The person who refuses to be empathetic is you, not me. Maybe I'm not the most empathetic person, but at least I tried, even when you treated me like that. 

Life is not just rainbow and sunshine for both of us. It has never been. You called me priviledged, and I won't deny it. It was still hard though. Can you aim your frustration with your past at something else? Seriously, I think you should make a film about it. You have a great story to tell. It's really not me. It is you. You deserve to be heard, and I don't deserve to be hurt. 

Please, for me, or for yourself mostly, I'd say for yourself, stop avoiding. You can't afford it. I honestly can't afford it. If you really have any regard for me, or for yourself, please at least do that. So many people including me have been trying to support you in our own ways, within our capacity. Please stop avoiding us. You can't do this alone. Films are collective effort. Social movements are collective effort. You will be nobody without others, and now is a good time for you to learn how to cultivate that. The truth is, you don't have to be with me if you don't love me. It's not that complicated. I will respect you more if you admit that than you hanging me on a string. I feel suffocated right now on that string. 

I'm starting to feel that my love for you is irrelevant now. I know it will still be there. I know that with all the memories, it will be persistent. I'm not afraid of that anymore. You know, I just want to be honest with myself. I can love a lot of people. I will love you, and I will love so many other people, in so many different ways, romantically, or not. When I thought about my future, I know that I want to work with people that I care about. I will have a lot of love for them. My love for you will one day only be a drop in the love I have for everyone. At some point, hopefully soon, it won't hurt as much. I don't want to feel hurt just because I love you. I finally understand now that the reason I am hurt is because I care so much, while you care so little. You might say, why don't you understand? I did all of this also for you? Did you really ask me what do I want? Did I ever have a chance to tell you what I want?

I said, I want the best for you. I really meant it. I want life to be easier for you. I want a life with you. I used to view this very dreadful place with a crystal in my hand to distract me. I used to find this place more tolerable, because I was with you, and I thought quite naively that we will get out of here together. Now that the crystal is shattered, and the place looks exactly like what it looks like. I feel shattered. I feel pain. I feel lost. I feel a lot of things. I know I can't avoid the reality anymore. 

Do I still want those things? I won't say I don't, that will be a lie. I just don't know if I actually know you, if I actually know how you feel, if you actually love me the way you presented. Because if you do, you wouldn't have said those things about me. If you really do, you wouldn't have treated me the way you did. Are you really not that person? I really want to know because I can't build anything with that person. I don't recognize you anymore. I wish I can just be happy and accept you once you come back. I am open to be convinced, but right now, I just feel that I am learning another side of you that finds me disgusting, annoying, and too demanding. I don't know when and how often I should expect that side to show up. 

Oh, and I don't know if I should feel pathetic that I'm still waiting for you to come back. I guess I am also waiting when I fully accept that you left me as such. Maybe you will come back before that, maybe you will not. You can't have everything, especially you did not wait at all to get rid of me from your world. I don't want to act as if I can't do without you anymore. I mean, I didn't really feel like that anyway. I don't want you to think I refuse to leave. It is easier to leave than to stay, please don't get that wrong. I have been brave for you, but can you be brave for me? 

September 8th, 2024. 