---
title: The Last Letter
date: 2024-09-23
category: notes
layout: post
---
Hi,

I thought I would have accepted the reality by now, but life had other plans. You broke up with me on my 23rd birthday. 

I still haven't fully processed the fact that I'm 23 now. When you turned 23 this year, I gave you a film camera. I thought that will show how much trust I have in you and that you will have no excuse but to make films. You are working on a film project now. I know you are always able to, it's just that you needed something to give you a chance. I couldn't provide that chance and so I could only offer the tool--you found that chance yourself. 

At the time we have only been dating for 6 months, and we almost broke up that week. You found life dreadful, because you felt very hurt by the past and OCD. At that time, I didn't know how to express my emotions for you at all. I resorted to saying I love you, I really love you, I'm so lucky to be with you, but saying them a million times still can't capture what I really felt. 

You taught me how to express myself. You also gave me the room to, as much as that was not easy for you. Neither of us grew up with the space to feel important enough to articulate our thoughts, and I struggle with even finding words for things. I still do. It does seem like I'm a lot better at putting things into written words now, even though a lot of the time I can't speak it out loud directly. That was thanks to you, because you made me feel that my thoughts really matter, and that you really care. You were there to listen, and so I finally believed that I could be myself, a self that's not for the benefit for anyone but myself.

That day your brother came as you told him that we were in the middle of a breakup. He told you not to make the mistake he made, giving up someone because feeling himself not good enough. He asked me what I think, and I said I know it's a process. He agreed, and it seemed that he convinced you to stay. I meant what I said, but I wish I could also say this:

What I see in you is not what you are not good at. I don't see you as your trauma, your struggles, or your OCD. What I see is someone who is brave enough to pursue his dream. I couldn't do that for myself, and till this day I regret not doing it. I see you as someone who's very caring and honest. I find you precious, and yes you are good enough for me. I know it is hard to see yourself that way, because people in the past consistently treated you as if you were a burden, but I also know how that feels. I feel ashamed thinking about what my mom said and did to me, just because I have ADHD, just because I was a kid who needed support and she felt burdened. You obviously disagreed with that, in fact you are angry at her for that. For me, obviously, I don't think of you that way. I think we are two very hurt but loving people, and with what we've been through, that in itself is a tremendous success. You are more than capable of moving past trauma, treating your OCD symptoms, and getting to where you want to be. For me, I was just happy to be part of that journey. I found happiness in your happiness. I know it is hard, none of what you have right now is easy. However, as you told your friend, look at the bigger picture. In that picture you have achieved so much in the past year despite everything that was against you. 

I wish, I could let you know not just how much I love you, but also how much I value you. 

I was raised in a way where care was exclusively expressed through actions. That was what I learned, and so my friends found my gifts thoughtful, but couldn't really hear me say anything too profound. You might find my love for you in the food I cook, but I rarely was able to express the full extent of what I feel. You probably discovered that when I was with you, I always did small things to help you. They were things as small as picking up a napkin in the Wawa, and I didn't really think too deeply about it but your brother brought it up. Those acts of service was the way I was cared for, because I learned caring is about thinking everything for the person I care for at the moment. I am not sure if that's what you need really, because I am also not sure if that's what I needed. 

It's not that I don't have much to give, it's I never really learned what and how to give. I gave a lot, as you might agree. It is an irony that I couldn't express fully the care I have for you even though I do. I resorted to doing more, but what I really should have done is learning something I never could before: understanding that care I have and communicating it with you.

I knew writing would help, and so I'm writing now. None of these are new to you, I believe, as you also care so much about me and understand me very well. 

I was in this state of mind two weeks ago, but I do think about different things this time. I felt tremendous love for you, so much that I felt that I should give you as much space as you need. When we were in the relationship, I focused too much on how you were doing at the moment, without much thinking about what you went through. I was talking to my friend yesterday, and I said, looking back, I wish after you told me what happened the first time, which was also the first time you told anyone, I could force myself to slow it down. You rarely express strong emotions, but that day you were almost crying. You kept saying "think about that" after bringing up things that happened to you and your family. It was heartbreaking to hear. At that moment, I wanted to make you feel safe. I wanted to hold you, tell you it's ok now, and I feel sorry for you. I wish I could say, I love you so much, but darling you are hurting, you need help and you need to heal. You can do that now, and I will be there with you. I wish I could find help for you right away, and encourage you to navigate that journey. I wish I could make sure you have the tools you need, and put the romantic relationship aside before that happens. It's not what-ifs, because I also didn't know what I know now. I just wish that things could have been easier. It's not what I did wrong, but I wish I knew more, even though as a traumatized person in their first relationship, that was impossible. The good news is, you indeed are on that journey now. 

Everything I saw was only a reflection of how much you need to heal. I was not able to see that, because you hid that really well. You hid them until you couldn't, and I won't blame you for that. When you asked me what I want last week, I said I want you to be ok. I meant it. I want you to be ok, first and foremost, whatever it takes. Selfishly I wish I can be there with you, but if it takes me to step away for a few months, as painful as it is for me, I will. I love you, I want to be with you, but I am more committed to making sure you are ok than fulfilling my own desire to be next to you. I always felt lucky to be next to you, because in a way I knew you don't easily let people do that. I felt I was special, and I guess I was, but it was at your expense. I didn't know that, but now I do. I am sorry that I couldn't see things as clearly as I do now. You did say it wasn't about me, but I couldn't see that two weeks ago. It really isn't, now that I've seen the bigger picture. 

It's still so painful being away from you. I'm really not used to it. My heart aches as I think about you. It wasn't a conventional relationship, and I know that my journey after breaking up with you won't be conventional too. I am not angry at you at all, even after I had a trauma bonding conversation with my friend, as we saw many things similar in our relationships. Trauma produces similar outcomes even in different context, and I feel hurt because I feel powerless. I couldn't do anything about it, really. I'm glad I did one thing right: put you on therapy. It took a long time, but I'm glad I was able to do at least that. I told you when you are in your deepest despair that you don't have to do this alone, but it does seem that you need to do it without me. It's hard to accept that, but I will. I know I care more about that than being close to you. The pain you have makes part of me really tender. I always have that tenderness for people, but you are the reason I don't feel ashamed by it. I am now able to express it to a lot of people now. I told Kaleea how she helped me understand what is real support. I told Zak that even though she couldn't see the value and whole picture of the relationship, she does care a lot about me. I am able to tell myself now that I will give myself room to heal. I cry a lot because of that compassion, and I will allow myself to. 

Part of the pain comes from the realization that we have to separate because you are in pain. I wasn't the cause of most of the pain, but it is not easy to think about how painful it is for you. I understand why you are in pain, and I wish I could take some of that away, but I can't. I knew it even right after you left yesterday, and so I wrote a note in the hope that you don't feel left alone. I wanted to let you know what you make me feel, and that I wish I can make you feel the same way. 

Despite many flaws in our experience together, I am glad that I was there with you when you made the final decision to be estranged from your mom. I am glad I was there when you were struggling with past memories. I am glad I was there when you were working for the film festival. I am glad I was there when you didn't think you can live anymore. I am glad you called me right away when you convinced the USC graduate to score your film. I am glad, even before we started dating, that I was there when you needed someone you feel comfortable to express yourself. I feel lucky that we can share so much experiences together, even though sometimes it weighs on you. You are still not used to sharing that with anyone, and it is very understandable. I wish I could slowly progress towards letting you allow yourself to be open receive that care. Many people love you, but very few really took care of you. You are very strong to be able to stand where you stand right now, but you also deserve all the care everyone has for you. It's everyone, not just me. 

I know it is hard for you to rely on people, but you did find friends who are highly reliable. I wish I can look back at the time we spent together with a smile, as I knew even at the time this was truly special. I wish you will look back and be proud of yourself. Your trauma is not you, but you experience speaks to who you truly are. 

I never expected to find someone as special as you. You said that about how you felt meeting me the first few times, but I felt the same way. It was a strong desire to know more, because I knew you would be someone I've never thought that exists. You hid the pain really well, and I could only sense a fraction of it. I kept looking directly at you, because you looked hurt. I was confused why you look so hurt but yet decide to let the conversation go on, because I thought you didn't feel comfortable. Now I know that it was precisely because you were comfortable that you were able to express that hurt, even though it was only hidden in the abstract things we talked about, even though it was only obvious on your face. 

Zak said it is almost angering knowing that the partner he had was just hurt and needed help, but couldn't let him in, that she loved him and still loves him, but there's nothing he could do. For me, I'm not as angry. It is slightly frustrated in terms of the choice you make to push me away, because I don't handle rejections well and I really hope I can help you. But as Zak also said, trauma does trauma things. It doesn't matter how mature we are, how self-aware we are, how much we understand each other and the situation at hand. None of these really make a difference in the outcome. If you don't feel comfortable to let me help, and if you don't ask for it, I can not help you. It's still painful, even though I know it's not what I did, and it's not your fault either. It is a choice based on what you are comfortable with, and again as I said the note I will and I know I can respect it. 

I always thought you know everything, because you've read so much. Sometimes though, I don't know if you know how I feel. Granted, I barely am able to express complex emotions verbally. I wish I am able to. We struggle with expressing our love, because we barely experienced unconditional love growing up. The only unconditional love I felt before you was from my grandmother. The safety I felt with you was similar to what I felt growing up whenever I visited her, and the pain is also very similar to when I had to depart. The difference now is that I don't have to return to the toxic and abusive environment, even though we've departed. My grandmother truly loved me for who I am, appreciated every little shinning aspects of me, thought I was the greatest thing in the world. You accepted me as who I am, always assure me about my strengths, and love me even when you struggle with emotions. You are not the same as my grandmother, but you make me feel accepted the way she did. As a kid I was always excited to meet her, and as an adult I am always excited to meet you. You will always hold a special place in my heart, because even though we are not family, you make me feel like one. Your family also accepted me as part of the family, even though they barely know me. I don't know what it exactly is, but it is a warm feeling to be part of it. 

You know, most people deal with break up with irrational emotions. They express their pain through anger, frustration, sometimes even aggression. I don't know why as much as it hurts a lot, there is a warm feeling knowing that we really love each other and try to take care of each other. I can't be mad at you, because I know what happened. 

That morning I woke up from the nightmare of you breaking up with me, and you reassured me that you would sort things through before you ever bring it up again. That midnight you brought it up, without sorting things through. Before you brought it up, you asked me if I love you and how I'm feeling. You know what happened next, but you didn't know I was looking for my earbuds to listen to "Bye bye bye" because that day when you played it to me I felt really hurt, and I wanted to process that hurt by listening to it again. You said you know that song does not describe how you feel, before you did that. I wish I could tell you that was what I was trying to do, but at that moment you must have been so frustrated by your OCD and you couldn't help but break your promise. It is ok, because I know I can't place any normal standards of a partner on you right now. It is ok that you are not capable of doing that right now. I knew what I was getting into not long after we started dating, and I chose to stay. It was my choice, and it wasn't on you. 

You were overextending yourself, but I couldn't see that. In my head you are capable of anything, but in reality that simply can't be the case. I wish I could see it at the moment, but I was too carried away by the prospect of us separating. Sorry that my crying overwhelmed you, and sorry I ignored you in those moments. I struggled to accept it because in my head you were hurting me, and if you hurt me I can't accept your comforting. I am sorry, I should have recognized that was informed by trauma, and unlike my mom you were simply doing the best you could. 

I have to be honest, I disagree with Sam. I think he is a great and caring friend, but I doubt if he really understands what type of relaionship we have. Maybe it's just me being selfish, but I don't think he knows what we experienced, what connections we have, what we are capable of. I don't think he knows me as a person. I don't think he knows the value of the relationship, aside from the pain it caused. I don't think he understands that those pain are not from the relationship, or what can help you heal. You need space, but you don't need isolation. I don't think he understands that I cried because of the pattern of being pushed away caused by your avoidance. I'm not blaming him, but I simply don't think he knows the whole picture. As for you, I hope this is what you need, even though I have my doubts. I'm doing this for you, and I will do things for myself too. You care, still, and I do too. No matter what, that won't change, and we need to heal. It is not a casual college relationship with immature people doing things for fun. It was a serious relaitonship with a lot of commitment, with the prospect of uplifting both of us. I don't think your friends understand that, and it's ok. 

I have to let you go now, and I will pick up the pieces again. It is scary because I have so little time and it seems to be some of the hardest things I have to do. However, it is ok. We will be ok. I want to say you can always ask me for help, but you also said I should do you a favor and respect the no-contact rule. I will say it here, as my wish, since you won't see it anyway. I want to help not because I want to feel better about myself, but because I know I can, and I know I want to be there for you. 

Sincerely,
Your former best friend