---
title: The Last Letter
date: 2024-09-12
category: notes
layout: post
---

*Hi there,*

I’m writing this as I tried to work next to you, because I just can’t ignore my emotions and thoughts about the break up. It seems that the common theme of me writing is I need to do work, but I can’t. Please don’t worry about any special intention of this letter—as any other letters I’ve given you, I just want to express myself in an honest way. I don’t intend to use the letter to get you back or push you away. I just can’t say this in person, because I don’t know if I will be able to express it without too much emotions, and yes sometimes I overthink how you will take things too, so I guess you can say this is my way of avoiding having to face that directly. I don’t want to just talk about myself though, since that’s the last thing you need right now, not to say you need much from me really. You made such an effort to give me the closure I really need, and I want to do the same, but from my perspective. 

First off, I really appreciate your effort to accompany me, when my friends are not able to make time for me despite this being a very hard time. I don’t blame them, as I was the one who didn’t form a close relationship with them in the first place. You are one of the very few people I met here I could really open up about myself at all. I think you understand, and honestly you understand the side of me I don’t want to admit easily myself. I know I didn’t make it easier for you to obtain what you really need right now, and while I can’t really apologize for my emotions, I wish I could handle it better, and I wish I would have refused your help, since that was not your responsibility at all. The rational understanding of circumstances doesn’t stop me want to get closer to you whenever I can, even though I also know that attachment really burdens you in general. I can’t apologize for my tendencies, but I do need to take responsibility for my actions. I hope you won’t be bothered by it for long, for now I’ve made my decision to heal in my own way, and you know you don’t have to worry about me. Time is the real medicine. 

I know I was trying to express that, but I am afraid that I didn’t express it fully. I understand rationally that this is not about me, but it is still not easy to accept emotionally.

You were right, we need to set more boundaries. Right now though, we can’t be friends. I still love you, and I can’t pretend those emotions don’t exist playing the role of your friend. That will hurt me, and ultimately it will hurt you. I will keep wanting something more, knowing myself, and obviously you don’t want that. I will be ok on my own for now, as I have faith that I can sleep with medications, and I have my therapist, my friend, my chosen family to support me. I am strong enough to face it too, because I chose to love you and be in a relationship with you myself, and of course I can deal with the consequences that it failed. It hurts to let go of the future I envisioned with you in my life. It hurts to think that I can’t spend time with you as much any more. A part of me is lost because it involved you. I still talk a lot like you, pay attention to things the way you do, think about films more than I would otherwise do, want to share so many things with you, and even the way I express care to my friends have your shadows in them. I find so many things to be bittersweet now. For one thing, I’m not sure if I can bring myself to watch a film any time soon, but that’s ok. I think I can take a break from films. I appreciate films so much more than I did, so I will be back to them in the future. 

I do care about you, and I do wish you feel supported. You will get through this, as you have always got through what life threw at you. I believe in you, and I really hope I can be there for you, but now that we’ve broken up, I don’t think I can without hurting you. That makes me sad, really, but as you said, you will be ok. I hope you can rest assured that I will be ok too. I know that it hurts me so much because I love you so much, and that’s just part of loving someone other than myself. I don’t blame you for that, as you are someone worthy of all the love I have for you. I don’t regret loving you. I appreciate having you in my life. I learned so much from you, and I have always been inspired by you. I know that the relationship was not perfect, but we did grow to be better person together, and now we need to do it separately.

As you said, if we can meet somewhere else again and in a better state of mind, maybe we can try to be together again. I know you are still figuring out a lot of things, but I can’t tell you how much, still, I hope that can happen. I’m willing to wait for you, because I know I love you for who you are, and that will never change. To me, you are not your trauma, your OCD, or your struggles. You are a very sensitive and caring person who tried your best even when you struggled to support me, and I can’t tell you enough how much I love you for your sensitivity, talent, and kindness. It’s hard not to love you when I got to know you on such a deep level, and I know it wasn’t easy for you to open up to me. Again, please don’t take it as a message that I want to be back together right now. I want to express it because I hope you don’t feel unworthy of love, that you are not worth waiting for, or that I don’t want to. You totally are, and you totally can get through it. Maybe that’s just me, and it’s ok, but I believe we have the ability foster a healthy and loving relationship with good communications, mutual respect, and care. We tried and we failed, but it’s not because we are not capable—we will be capable. The pain from the past won’t control us forever, because both of us have made the decision to not let it to. I used to be very cynical about the world, and it got better since college, but you were really the model I look up to in terms of how to express care. Kaleea does that too, but you showed me that care consistently. 

Don’t ever hesitate in the future to reach out if you want to or if you need to. I don’t resent you for what you did, and I can’t tell you how much I value what you did for me in the past week and so much more in the past. It’s time to let go now. I’d like to think it’s time to reconnect with myself, find strength from myself again, and get to a better place. I can’t let go the deep love I have for you right now, and it’s ok. Maybe I will at some point. I know I will always love you, but I will also love a lot of people, romantically or not. I know I will be able to, and my love for you will be a drop of all the love I have. At some point, it won’t hurt as much. I hope, I really hope, that soon I can look back at the time I had with you with a smile. I’m not able to do it now because I’m very sad that it came to an end, but there were a lot of good moments that I know I will cherish. And for the moments I was hurt, I don’t really blame you, because even in those moments I knew you really loved me. 

You went out of your way to give me enough strength to move on, and I can’t thank you enough. I can’t tell you how sad I am thinking about all the lost possibilities of more shared memories. I also can’t tell you how sad I feel when the smallest things, smells, songs, words, even the words I say to others remind me of you, and by extension, remind me of losing you. You said I didn’t lose you, but I did. I lost the possibilities with you that I really wanted. 

I saw you working on the whiteboard that day, and for the first time after a long while, I felt intimidated. I didn’t want to disturb. You looked very sad, but at the same time so dedicated to your work, which I admire. I can’t take away the hurt, and that makes me feel sad too. This feeling is oddly familiar, because I felt that way when I saw you in swem before we started dating. I couldn’t name what it was at the time, but now I know it was a recognition of understanding you on a deeper level, the special connection that we had since the very beginning, and emotions I have for you that probably won’t change. 

You are right, it doesn’t have to end badly. We have been friends, and we are still friends. It’s just that this friend of yours still really love you and wants more than just friends, but she also recognizes that is not possible. As I said, I’m a realistic person, and I want to be honest about my feelings. I don’t want to complicate things. I enjoy being with you, even now, but I know I can’t keep doing this. You can’t keep doing this. 

You didn’t lose me. I hope you don’t think so. I don’t want to lose you too. I think we can afford not seeing each other that much or be friends for a while, because I feel like I know you well enough not to worry about that distance to take away our connections fully. I just want to deal with it the best way I can for both of us, and that involves space for both of us to explore. It does hurt me when you talk about your ideal bachelor life in the future, but you know, ultimately, I will be happy for you if you can be who you want to be, with or without a relationship, with or without me, because I believe you deserve to be happy as a very good person. I know there will be memories that make it very hard for me, and I guess I can assume those will be hard for you too. I can’t tell you how to deal with them, but I’d say, at least for me, I would take the pain I feel as the evidence that we were really in love, and the sweeter that love was, the more hurt it is now, because it is unfortunately a loss. I didn’t know I will feel this way now when I said I have feelings for you, but I don’t regret anything. I wish I knew more than I did, but I don’t blame you or anyone for that (with the exception of our parents). 

This is probably the last letter I can write to you. I hope you find it helpful, as I find writing it helpful. I have so much hopes and wish for you, and I can't tell you how much I appreciate you as a person, in the relationship, or just in general. People around you always tell you how much I was a good girlfriend, but I want to tell them that you are a very good and considerate person, who gave me all you could. It was not easy for you at all. 

Well, not to anyone’s surprise, this letter is getting too long. I had to write this much because I don’t want you to take it as I don’t want to love you any more and I just want to move on with my life. No, that is not true. One sentence cannot capture all the nuances in what I feel right now for you, and I don’t want you to be more hurt. I really don’t. We will talk more at some point, at least I do want to. So I will just close it off with this: I think the future holds endless possibilities for you, and I know it looks like it’s so difficult, but you will do a lot of great things and meet a lot of great people in a great place. When the time comes, when it doesn’t hurt us as much, I’d like to be your friend again and make new memories. I want you to know that I will be there for you, and I will always be there for you, no matter what happens. 

Please take care.

Sincerely, 
*Your best friend who's struggling with grammar and tends to repeat things today*